README.md, before:

# Description

Creates a demo graph in DSE Graph (`demo_who_likes_whom`), generates some csv files, then loads that data. 

## Use cases
- Benchmarking
- Performance testing
- Data model experimentation

## Implementation Details
- Not yet including indices in the testing
- Single hop writes/reads only, not worrying about depth yet

# Instructions

## 0) Install
### 0.1) Python reqs
```
python3 -m venv ./venv 
source venv/bin/activate
pip3 install -r requirements
```

### 0.2) Install GraphLoader (for 6.7)
      ```
      curl -OL https://downloads.datastax.com/enterprise/dse-graph-loader-6.7.tar.gz
      tar -xzvf dse-graph-loader-6.7.tar.gz
      ```
TODO

### 0.3) DSbulk (for 6.8)
Following: https://docs.datastax.com/en/dse/6.8/dse-admin/datastax_enterprise/graph/using/graphInstallDSbulk.html

- Download and unpackage

      ```
      curl -OL https://downloads.datastax.com/dsbulk/dsbulk-1.8.0.tar.gz
      tar -xzvf dsbulk-1.8.0.tar.gz
      ```
- Set to PATH
    * this is required if you want to use our shell script to load
        ```
        echo 'export PATH=/home/ryan/libs/dsbulk-1.8.0/bin:$PATH' >> ~/.bashrc 
        source ~/.bashrc
        dsbulk --version

        ```

- You might also need to perform some of the steps defined here: https://docs.datastax.com/en/dsbulk/doc/dsbulk/install/dsbulkInstall.html#Post-installrequirementsandrecommendations

## 1) Generate csvs

```
# python3 ./generate-csvs/generate-fake-csv.py <partition_count> <supernodes_per_partition_count> <adjacent vertices per supernode>
python3 ./generate-csvs/generate-fake-csv.py 2 2 1000000
```
This will generate 2 partitions, 4 total supernodes (each with 1,000,000 adjacent vertices), and 4,000,000 total vertices.

## 2) Create the graph and Schema 
### 2.1) for 6.7
```
./scripts/create-graph-and-schema.6.7.sh
```
- can optionally pass in ip of dse node, and specify if executing against provided docker-compose file e.g., if not running with docker, and if specifying ip:
```
./scripts/create-graph-and-schema.6.7.sh false 123.456.789.123
```
or if you are using docker:
```
./scripts/create-graph-and-schema.6.7.sh true
```


If it doesn't work, you can also just try manually executing the groovy scripts' contents in the gremlin-console, which is all that this shell script is doing anyway. 
```
dse gremlin-console
# then create graph and schema, copying the scripts found in ./scripts/create-graph.groovy and ./scripts/create-schema.groovy
```

### 2.2) for 6.8
Same as for 6.7, but different shell script
```
./scripts/create-graph-and-schema.6.8.sh 
```




## 3) Load the data

## 3.1 For 6.7
- Dry run

    ```
    ./scripts/dse6.7.graphloader.runner.sh true
    ```

- When ready, execute
    ```
    ./scripts/dse6.7.graphloader.runner.sh
    ```


## 3.2 For 6.8
Implementation details:
- currently does not clear out previously loaded data. 

```
# ./scripts/dse6.8.bulk-loader.runner.sh <relative-path> <ip [optional]>
./scripts/dse6.8.bulk-loader.runner.sh ./tmp/data/2-partitions.2-sn-per-p.10-v-per-sn/ 192.168.0.190
```


# Development
## Helpful tricks
### Drop graph and create schema again
- in Gremlin console: 

    ```
    docker exec -it dse-graph-supernode-benchmarking_dse_1 dse gremlin-console
    system.graph('demo_who_likes_whom').drop()
    ```
- Then in host Bash, build again:
    ```
    # for 6.7
    ./scripts/create-graph-and-schema.6.7.sh true
    ```

# Debugging
## Errors running DSE graph loader
- Try making a smaller sample set, then changing the target csv file when executing
    ```
    python3 ./generate-csvs/generate-fake-csv.py 1 1 2
    vim ./scripts/dse6.7.graphloader.run.groovy
    # and then change the target csv to inputfiledir = '/home/ryan/projects/dse-graph-supernode-benchmarking/tmp/data/1-partitions.1-sn-per-p.2-v-per-sn/'
    ```
## Errors running dsbulk
### ERROR Operation LOAD_20210618-093931-387708 failed: Vertex label person does not exist.
Make sure to run scripts to create the graph and schema for dse graph first, using hte gremlin console

Commit message:

create script to generate intermediary vertices for 6.7

README.md, after:

# Description

Creates a demo graph in DSE Graph (`demo_who_likes_whom`), generates some csv files, then loads that data. 

## Use cases
- Benchmarking
- Performance testing
- Data model experimentation

## Implementation Details
- Not yet including indices in the testing
- Single hop writes/reads only, not worrying about depth yet

# Instructions

## 0) Install
### 0.1) Python reqs
```
python3 -m venv ./venv 
source venv/bin/activate
pip3 install -r requirements
```

### 0.2) Install GraphLoader (for 6.7)
      ```
      curl -OL https://downloads.datastax.com/enterprise/dse-graph-loader-6.7.tar.gz
      tar -xzvf dse-graph-loader-6.7.tar.gz
      ```
TODO

### 0.3) DSbulk (for 6.8)
Following: https://docs.datastax.com/en/dse/6.8/dse-admin/datastax_enterprise/graph/using/graphInstallDSbulk.html

- Download and unpackage

      ```
      curl -OL https://downloads.datastax.com/dsbulk/dsbulk-1.8.0.tar.gz
      tar -xzvf dsbulk-1.8.0.tar.gz
      ```
- Set to PATH
    * this is required if you want to use our shell script to load
        ```
        echo 'export PATH=/home/ryan/libs/dsbulk-1.8.0/bin:$PATH' >> ~/.bashrc 
        source ~/.bashrc
        dsbulk --version

        ```

- You might also need to perform some of the steps defined here: https://docs.datastax.com/en/dsbulk/doc/dsbulk/install/dsbulkInstall.html#Post-installrequirementsandrecommendations

## 1) Generate csvs

```
# python3 ./generate-csvs/generate-fake-csv.py <partition_count> <supernodes_per_partition_count> <adjacent vertices per supernode>
python3 ./generate-csvs/generate-fake-csv.py 2 2 1000000
```
This will generate 2 partitions, 4 total supernodes (each with 1,000,000 adjacent vertices), and 4,000,000 total vertices.

## 2) Create the graph and Schema 
### 2.1) for 6.7
```
./scripts/create-graph-and-schema.6.7.sh
```
- can optionally pass in ip of dse node, and specify if executing against provided docker-compose file e.g., if not running with docker, and if specifying ip:
```
./scripts/create-graph-and-schema.6.7.sh false 123.456.789.123
```
or if you are using docker:
```
./scripts/create-graph-and-schema.6.7.sh true
```


If it doesn't work, you can also just try manually executing the groovy scripts' contents in the gremlin-console, which is all that this shell script is doing anyway. 
```
dse gremlin-console
# then create graph and schema, copying the scripts found in ./scripts/create-graph.groovy and ./scripts/create-schema.groovy
```

### 2.2) for 6.8
Same as for 6.7, but different shell script
```
./scripts/create-graph-and-schema.6.8.sh 
```




## 3) Load the data

## 3.1 For 6.7
- Dry run

    ```
    ./scripts/dse6.7.graphloader.runner.sh true
    ```

- When ready, execute
    ```
    ./scripts/dse6.7.graphloader.runner.sh
    ```

    Note that this can take a long time, but you can take the supernode ids from the generated file (e.g., `./tmp/data/2-partitions.2-sn-per-p.1000000-v-per-sn/supernodes_uuids.txt`) and start querying, since supernodes will probably be written first, being at the top of the `vertices.csv` file
      * E.g., if one has uuid of `53eb72bd-7a7a-4ff3-b0de-451eab371b05`, can do:
          ```
          g.V().hasLabel("person").has("uuid", "53eb72bd-7a7a-4ff3-b0de-451eab371b05")
          ```

## 3.2 For 6.8
Implementation details:
- currently does not clear out previously loaded data. 

```
# ./scripts/dse6.8.bulk-loader.runner.sh <relative-path> <ip [optional]>
./scripts/dse6.8.bulk-loader.runner.sh ./tmp/data/2-partitions.2-sn-per-p.10-v-per-sn/ 192.168.0.190
```

# 4 Generate Intermediary edges
```
python3 generate-csvs/generate-fake-csv.generate-intermediary-vertices.py <path to data dir> <max incoming edges for intermediary vertex>
```
e.g., 
```
python3 generate-csvs/generate-fake-csv.generate-intermediary-vertices.py ./tmp/data/2-partitions.2-sn-per-p.10-v-per-sn/ 3
```

# Development
## Helpful tricks
### Drop graph and create schema again
- in Gremlin console: 

    ```
    docker exec -it dse-graph-supernode-benchmarking_dse_1 dse gremlin-console
    system.graph('demo_who_likes_whom').drop()
    ```
- Then in host Bash, build again:
    ```
    # for 6.7
    ./scripts/create-graph-and-schema.6.7.sh true
    ```

# Debugging
## Errors running DSE graph loader
- Try making a smaller sample set, then changing the target csv file when executing
    ```
    python3 ./generate-csvs/generate-fake-csv.py 1 1 2
    vim ./scripts/dse6.7.graphloader.run.groovy
    # and then change the target csv to inputfiledir = '/home/ryan/projects/dse-graph-supernode-benchmarking/tmp/data/1-partitions.1-sn-per-p.2-v-per-sn/'
    ```
## Errors running dsbulk
### ERROR Operation LOAD_20210618-093931-387708 failed: Vertex label person does not exist.
Make sure to run scripts to create the graph and schema for dse graph first, using hte gremlin console
